## Synopsis

GPR is a small, MIT license, C++11 G-code parser. It is intended to provide the lowest
level of parsing for G-code, breaking up raw G-code text into blocks consisting of
comments and word-address style commands.

## What is G code?

G code is the universal language of machine tools. It is used to control everything from mills and lathes to EDM machines and 3D printers.

Though the syntax and semantics of g-code are officially defined by ISO 6983 it is not really a single language. Different machine vendors implement different subsets of the standard and different non-standard extensions for their own equipment.
G code program structure

What everybody agrees on is that GCODE programs consist of blocks, which are really just lines of text. Each block consists of:

    An optional block delete character '/'
    An optional line number
    Any number of words, parameter settings and comments
    An end of line marker (carriage return)

G-code emitted by modern CAM tools usually consists mostly of comments and words. For example the gcode program below has 4 blocks: 1 comment, and three movement commands.

[code language="cpp"]

(*** Toolpath 1 ***)
G0 X0.0 Y0.0 Z0.0
G1 X1.0 F23.0
G1 Z-1.0 F10.0

[/code]

Since the interpretation of GCODE commands varies from vendor to vendor this parser does not make any attempt to interpret GCODE commands. It simply parses GCODE and returns the parsed blocks.
G-code Dialects Supported

This parser has been tested on 5 different G-code samples, which are included in the github repo.

    RepRap: A common G-code dialect used by 3D printers like the monoprice select mini, the sample in the github repo was produced by Cura.
    LinuxCNC: The sample in the github repo was produced for a 3 axis mill by an experimental CAM system from Stanford.
    Vectric: Generated by VCarve Pro for a CAMASTER router
    HAAS: Taken from a machinists forum post.
    Mazak: Produced by Mazak's Mazatrol to G-code converter.